adding ignore_malformed field parameter (#9513)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/ignore-malformed.md

---
layout: default
title: Ignore malformed
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 45
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Ignore malformed

> The `ignore_malformed` mapping parameter instructs the indexing engine to ignore values that do not match the field’s expected format. When enabled, malformed values are not indexed, preventing entire-document rejection because of data format issues. This ensures that documents are still stored even if one or more fields contain data that cannot be parsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ignore_malformed` mapping parameter instructs the indexing engine to ignore values that do not match the field's expected format. When enabled, malformed values are not indexed, preventing entire-document rejection because of data format issues. This ensures that documents are still stored even if one or more fields contain data that cannot be parsed.
```

> By default, `ignore_malformed` is disabled, which means that if a value cannot be parsed according to the field type, the entire document indexing will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `ignore_malformed` is disabled, which means that if a value cannot be parsed according to the field type, indexing will fail for the entire document.
```

## Example: ignore_malformed off

Create an index named `people_no_ignore` containing an `age` field of type `integer`. By default, `ignore_malformed` is set to `false`:

```json
PUT /people_no_ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "age": {
        "type": "integer"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Index a document with a malformed value:

```json
PUT /people_no_ignore/_doc/1
{
  "age": "twenty"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The request fails because of the malformed value:

```json
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "mapper_parsing_exception",
        "reason": "failed to parse field [age] of type [integer] in document with id '1'. Preview of field's value: 'twenty'"
      }
    ],
    "type": "mapper_parsing_exception",
    "reason": "failed to parse field [age] of type [integer] in document with id '1'. Preview of field's value: 'twenty'",
    "caused_by": {
      "type": "number_format_exception",
      "reason": "For input string: \"twenty\""
    }
  },
  "status": 400
}
```

## Example: ignore_malformed on

> Create an index named `people_ignore`, in which the `age` field has `ignore_malformed` set to `true`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an index named `people_ignore` in which the `age` field has `ignore_malformed` set to `true`:
```

---
layout: default

> title: Ignore_malformed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Ignore malformed
```

parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 45
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

> # ignore_malformed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Ignore malformed
```

> The `ignore_malformed` mapping parameter instructs the indexing engine to ignore values that do not match the field’s expected format. When enabled, malformed values are not indexed, preventing entire document rejection due to data format issues. This ensures that documents are still stored even if one or more fields contain data that cannot be parsed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ignore_malformed` mapping parameter instructs the indexing engine to ignore values that do not match the field’s expected format. When enabled, malformed values are not indexed, preventing entire-document rejection because of data format issues. This ensures that documents are still stored even if one or more fields contain data that cannot be parsed.
```

By default, `ignore_malformed` is disabled, which means that if a value cannot be parsed according to the field type, the entire document indexing will fail.

> ## Example: Without ignore_malformed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example: ignore_malformed off
```

> Use the following command to create an index named `people_no_ignore` with an `age` field of type `integer` and `ignore_malformed` set to `false` (default):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an index named `people_no_ignore` containing an `age` field of type `integer`. By default, `ignore_malformed` is set to `false`:
```

```json
PUT /people_no_ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "age": {

>         "type": "integer",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "type": "integer"
```

>         "ignore_malformed": false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Index a document with a malformed value using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Index a document with a malformed value:
```

```json
PUT /people_no_ignore/_doc/1
{
  "age": "twenty"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The request fails because of the malformed value:
```

```json
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "mapper_parsing_exception",
        "reason": "failed to parse field [age] of type [integer] in document with id '1'. Preview of field's value: 'twenty'"
      }
    ],
    "type": "mapper_parsing_exception",
    "reason": "failed to parse field [age] of type [integer] in document with id '1'. Preview of field's value: 'twenty'",
    "caused_by": {
      "type": "number_format_exception",
      "reason": "For input string: \"twenty\""
    }
  },
  "status": 400
}
```

> ## Example: With ignore_malformed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example: ignore_malformed on
```

> Use the following command to create an index named `people_ignore` where the `age` field uses `ignore_malformed` set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an index named `people_ignore`, in which the `age` field has `ignore_malformed` set to `true`:
```

```json
PUT /people_ignore
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "age": {
        "type": "integer",
        "ignore_malformed": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Index a document with a malformed value using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Index a document with a malformed value:
```

```json
PUT /people_ignore/_doc/1
{
  "age": "twenty"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Retrieve the document using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieve the document:
```

```json
GET /people_ignore/_doc/1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The response shows that the document was indexed successfully, despite having a malformed value:
```
